C. Harrison et al. 2011 MNRAS 409, 1455
Kuntschner, H. et al. 2010 MNRAS 408, 97 - 48 gals



S. Nicholas et al. 2009 MNRAS 398, 1835

We present the results of an investigation of the local escape
velocity (Vesc) - line strength index relationship for 48 early-type
galaxies from the SAURON sample, the first such study based on a large
sample of galaxies with both detailed integral field observations and
extensive dynamical modelling. Values of Vesc are computed using
multi-Gaussian expansion (MGE) photometric fitting and axisymmetric,
anisotropic Jeans' dynamical modelling simultaneously on Hubble Space
Telescope and ground-based images. We determine line strengths and
escape velocities at multiple radii within each galaxy, allowing an
investigation of the correlation within individual galaxies as well as
amongst galaxies. We find a tight correlation between Vesc and the
line-strength indices. For Mgb, we find that this correlation exists
not only between different galaxies but also inside individual
galaxies - it is both a local and global correlation. The Mgb-Vesc
relation has the form: log(Mgb/4?) = (0.32 +/- 0.03) log(Vesc/500km
s-1) - (0.031 +/- 0.007) with an rms scatter ? = 0.033. The relation
within individual galaxies has the same slope and offset as the global
relation to a good level of agreement, though there is significant
intrinsic scatter in the local gradients. We transform our line
strength index measurements to the single stellar population (SSP)
equivalent ages (t), metallicity ([Z/H]) and enhancement ([?/Fe]) and
carry out a principal component analysis of our SSP and Vesc data. We
find that in this four-dimensional parameter space the galaxies in our
sample are to a good approximation confined to a plane, given by log
(V esc/500 kms -1) = 0.85 [Z/H] + 0.43 log (t/Gyr) - 0.29. It is
surprising that a combination of age and metallicity is conserved;
this may indicate a `conspiracy' between age and metallicity or a
weakness in the SSP models. How the connection between stellar
populations and the gravitational potential, both locally and
globally, is preserved as galaxies assemble hierarchically may provide
an important constraint on modelling
